ε, 22. 1]

10

HORATI

Integer vitae scelerisque purus
non eget Mauris iaculis neque arcu
nec venenatis* gravida sagittiS,

F usce, pharetra,

¹ sive per Syrtis iter aestuosas

sive facturus per inhospitalem
Caucasum vel quae loca fabulosus
lambit Hydaspes.

Namque me silva lupus in Sabina,

dum meam canto Lalagen et ultra

terminum c‘uris vagor expeditis,
fugit inermem,

quale portentum neque militaris
Daunias latis alit aesculetis

1. vitae . . . sceleris: genitives
os reference3 the first is not un-
common in Latin poetry, eg. Verg.
A. 9, 255 and Ovid Asel. 9, 441
integeraeviss Intr. 93. Thesecond
is a Greek construction, καθαρὸς
ἀδικίας, for which the Latin ordi-
narily preferred the abl. Cf. S.
2, 3, 213 purum vitio cor.

5. Syrtis: the desert coast on
the north of Africa, opposite the
whirlpools called by the same
narne; cf. Verg. Α. 5, 51 hunc
(sc. diem) ego Gaetulis agerem si
Syrtibus exsul. Pliny JV. H. 5,
26 speaks of this barren tract as
the haunt of savage beasts and
serpents.

61²1. facturus: sc. est.—fabu10-
sus : since the Hydaspes —the far-
thest river reached by Alexander

in India — was famed to bear gems
and gold, and the entire unknown
eastern world for which the river
stands was a land of marvels and
wonders. —lambit : laves.

9. namque me: introducing the
special experience—shown by the
emphatic me to be a personal one
——to prove the general statement.
lntr. 30 —Lalagenz λαλαγή, ‘the
prattler‚' a name chosen to suit the
character of the ode.

10 f..u1tra terminum: ἷζε. of his
own farm. — curis expeditis: cf.

Catull. 31, 7 0 qnid solutis est bea· ¹

tius curis.

13. quale portentum: suclz a mon-
ster as, etc.

14. Daunias: the Greek Δαυνία,
Apulia3 named from Daunus, a
mythical king of Northern Apulia.

122

